.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac

.hw xoreos
.hw $XDG\_CONFIG\_HOME-/-xoreos-/-xoreos.conf
.hw $XDG\_CONFIG\_HOME
.hw $HOME-/-.config/
.hw $HOME-/-Library-/-Preferences-/-xoreos-/-xoreos.conf
.hw xoreos.conf
.hw $APPDATA
.hw $USERPROFILE

.TH xoreos 6 2015-07-24 xoreos
.SH NAME
xoreos - A reimplementation of BioWare's Aurora engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
xoreos [<options>] [<target>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B xoreos
is an open source implementation of BioWare's Aurora engine and its
derivatives, licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public
License version 3 (or later). The goal is to have all games using
this engines working in a portable manner.
.PP
.B The following games are valid targets for xoreos:
.PD 0
.IP - 2
Neverwinter Nights
.IP - 2
Neverwinter Nights 2
.IP - 2
Knights of the Old Republic
.IP - 2
Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords
.IP - 2
Jade Empire
.IP - 2
Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood
.IP - 2
The Witcher
.IP - 2
Dragon Age: Origins
.IP - 2
Dragon Age II
.PD
.SS Running xoreos
First, you need to fully install and/or copy the game you want to play
with
.B xoreos
onto your hard disk. How you do this depends on the game, your
operating system and where/how you have bought the game.
.PP
.B xoreos
does not yet have a launcher GUI or anything like this. You need
to start it from the command line. Run xoreos with the command line
option "--help" (without the quotes) to get a help text about further
command line options.
.PP
The quickest way to start a game in path /path/to/game/ would be to call
.IP "" 4
.nf
xoreos -p/path/to/game/
.fi
.PP
If you're on Windows and the path is, say, D:\\Path\\To\\Game\\, call
.IP "" 4
.nf
xoreos -pD:\\Path\\To\\Game\\
.fi
.SS Config file
In general,
.B xoreos
can read the configuration which game to run from either the command
line, a config file or both. Additionally, when you first specify a
new game on the command line,
.B xoreos
will add a related entry in the config file (creating it first, if
necessary).
.PP
To accurately identify a specific instance of an installed game,
.B xoreos
uses the concept of a "target". Each target has a separate section in
the config file, and each of their options apply only to that target.
The special target "xoreos" is a global section applying to all games,
although the same option in a game target overrides the global option.
.PP
.B For example:
.IP "" 4
.nf
[xoreos]
width=1024
height=768
fullscreen=false

[nwn]
path=/home/drmccoy/games/nwn/
fullscreen=true
volume_music=0.500000
volume_sfx=0.850000
volume_voice=0.850000
.fi
.PP
You can then start the game with the target "nwn" with
.IP "" 4
.nf
xoreos nwn
.fi
.PP
and
.BR xoreos
will do the rest. This will start the game in the path
/home/drmccoy/games/nwn/, running it in fullscreen at 1024x768.
.PP
As you can see with the volume options,
.BR xoreos
also saves settings you made in the game' actual GUI into the
target's section of the config file.
.PP
The place where
.BR xoreos
expects the config file depends on your operating system:
.PD 0
.IP - 2
On GNU/Linux, the place is $XDG\_CONFIG\_HOME/xoreos/xoreos.conf.
$XDG\_CONFIG\_HOME defaults to $HOME/.config/
.IP - 2
On Mac OS X, the place is $HOME/Library/Preferences/xoreos/xoreos.conf
.IP - 2
On Windows, xoreos.conf is in the subdirectory xoreos in either
$APPDATA or $USERPROFILE, depending on your Windows version
.PD
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B --help
Show a help text and exit.
.TP 4
.B --version
Show version information and exit.
.TP 4
.BR -c FILE
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --config= FILE
Load the config from file FILE.
.PD



.TP 4
.BR -p DIR
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --path= DIR
Override the game path with DIR.
.PD
.TP 4
.BR -w SIZE
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --width= SIZE
Set the window's width to SIZE.
.PD
.TP 4
.BR -h SIZE
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --height= SIZE
Set the window's height to SIZE.
.PD
.TP 4
.BR -f BOOL
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --fullscreen= BOOL
Switch fullscreen on/off.
.PD
.TP 4
.BR -k BOOL
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --skipvideos= BOOL
Disable videos on/off.
.PD
.TP 4
.BR -v VOL
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --volume= VOL
Set global volume to VOL.
.PD
.TP 4
.BR -m VOL
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --volume_music= VOL
Set music volume to VOL.
.PD
.TP 4
.BR -s VOL
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --volume_sfx= VOL
Set SFX volume to VOL.
.PD
.TP 4
.BR -o VOL
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --volume_voice= VOL
Set voice volume to VOL.
.PD
.TP 4
.BR -i VOL
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --volume_video= VOL
Set video volume to VOL.
.PD
.TP 4
.BR -q LANG
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --lang= LANG
Set the game's language.
.PD
.TP 4
.BR --langtext= LANG
Set the game's text language.
.TP 4
.BR --langvoice= LANG
Set the game's voice language.
.TP 4
.BR -d LVL
.PD 0
.TP 4
.BR --debuglevel= LVL
Set the debug level to LVL.
.PD
.TP 4
.BR --debugchannel= CHAN
Set the enabled debug channel(s) to CHAN.
.TP 4
.BR --listdebug
List all available debug channels.
.TP 4
.BR --listlangs
List all available languages for this target.
.TP 4
.BR --logfile= FILE
Write all debug output into this file too.
.TP 4
.BR --nologfile= BOOL
Don't write a log file.
.TP 4
.BR --consolelog= FILE
Write all debug console output into this file too.
.TP 4
.BR --noconsolelog= BOOL
Don't write a debug console log file.
.PP
.PD 0
.IP "FILE:" 6
Absolute or relative path to a file.
.PP
.IP "FILE:" 6
Absolute or relative path to a file.
.IP "DIR:" 6
Absolute or relative path to a directory.
.IP "SIZE:" 6
A positive integer.
.IP "BOOL:" 6
"true", "yes", "y", "on" and "1" are true, everything else is false.
.IP "VOL:" 6
A double ranging from 0.0 (min) - 1.0 (max).
.IP "LANG:" 6
A language identifier. Full name, ISO 639-1 or ISO 639-2 language
code; or IETF language tag with ISO 639-1 and ISO 3166-1 country code.
Examples: en, de_de, hun, Czech, zh-tw, zh_cn, zh-cht, zh-chs.
.IP "LVL:" 6
A positive integer.
.IP "CHAN:" 6
A comma-separated list of debug channels. Use "All" to enable all
debug channels.
.PD
.PP
Long-form command line option, like --skipvideos, map directly to
config options. Options given on the command line will override any
options found in the config file for this session, but will not save
back to that config file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 4
xoreos -p/path/to/nwn/
.BR xoreos
will start the game in /path/to/nwn/. Should a target with this path
not yet exist in the config file,
.BR xoreos
will create one named "nwn".
.TP 4
xoreos -p/path/to/nwn/ foobar
.BR xoreos
will start the game in /path/to/nwn/. If a target "foobar" does not
yet exist in the config file,
.BR xoreos
will create it.
.TP 4
xoreos nwn
.BR xoreos
will start the game specified by target "nwn", which must exit in the
config file already.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.URL "https://xoreos.org/" "its website" " and"
.URL "https://wiki.xoreos.org/" "its wiki" .
.SH AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos projects, and was written by
the xoreos team. Please see the AUTHORS file for details.
